docs/articles/commands/processors/slash_commands/choice_provider_vs_autocomplete.md, before:

---
uid: articles.commands.command_processors.slash_commands.choice_provider_vs_autocomplete
title: Choice Provider vs Autocomplete
---

# Choice Provider vs Autocomplete

What's a choice provider? How is it different from auto-complete? When should you use one over the other?

## Choice Providers
Discord provides a special feature to slash command options called "choices." Choices are a list of options that the user can select from. The user can select **only** from these choices - as in only those choices are valid - which differs from auto-complete. Unfortunately, the choices must be known and provided on startup as they're used when registering the slash command. This means that you can't dynamically change the choices at runtime.

![A Discord screenshot of the `lock` command providing only two choices. The first choice is `Send Messages`, while the second choice is `View Channel`.](../../../../images/commands_choice_provider_example.png)

> [!NOTE]
> The user **must** choose between **only** those two options. If the user tries to select something else, Discord will prevent the command from running.

> [!WARNING]
> A choice provider may only provide 25 choices. If you have more than 25 choices, you should use auto-complete.

## Autocomplete
Auto-complete, on the other hand, is a feature that allows the user to type in a value and Discord will return a list of suggestions retrieved from your bot. The user can select from the list of suggestions or continue typing. This is useful when you have a large number of options or when the options are dynamic and can change at runtime.

![A Discord screenshot of the `tag get` command. As the user types, the list of tags changes.](../../../../images/commands_autocomplete_example.png)

The user can type in any text they type. As they type in the text, Discord will send a request to your bot to get the list of suggestions. The user can then select from the list of suggestions or continue typing.

> [!WARNING]
> The user **is not required** to choose from the the suggestions provided. They can send any value they want, and it's up to your bot to handle the value.

## Which one should I use?
If you have a small, fixed list of options, use a choice provider. If you have a large list of options or the list of options can change at runtime, use auto-complete.

Some valid use-cases for choice providers include:
- Small Enums (Built-In support!)
- Media types (e.g. `image`, `video`, `audio`)
- The day of the week

Some valid use-cases for autocomplete include:
- Tag names
- A Google search
- Very large enums (e.g. all the countries in the world)

Both choice providers and auto-complete support dependency injection through the constructor.

## Implementing a Choice Provider

Our class will implement from the `IChoiceProvider` interface. This interface has a single method: `ValueTask<IReadOnlyDictionary<string, object>> ProvideAsync(CommandParameter parameter)`. This method is only called once per command parameter on startup.

```cs
public class DaysOfTheWeekProvider : IChoiceProvider
{
    private static readonly IReadOnlyDictionary<string, object> daysOfTheWeek = new Dictionary<
        string,
        object
    >
    {
        ["Monday"] = 1,
        ["Tuesday"] = 2,
        ["Wednesday"] = 3,
        ["Thursday"] = 4,
        ["Friday"] = 5,
        ["Saturday"] = 6,
        ["Sunday"] = 7,
    };

    public ValueTask<IReadOnlyDictionary<string, object>> ProvideAsync(
        CommandParameter parameter
    ) => ValueTask.FromResult(_daysOfTheWeek);
}
```

And now we apply this choice provider to a command parameter:

```cs
public class ScheduleCommand
{
    public async ValueTask ExecuteAsync(
        CommandContext context,
        [SlashChoiceProvider<DaysOfTheWeekProvider>] int day
    )
    {
        // ...
    }
}
```

## Implementing AutoComplete

Autocomplete is very similar in design to choice providers. Our class will implement the `IAutoCompleteProvider` interface. This interface has a single method: `ValueTask<IReadOnlyDictionary<string, object>> AutoCompleteAsync(AutoCompleteContext context)`. This method will be called everytime the `DiscordClient.InteractionCreated` is invoked with a `ApplicationCommandType` of `AutoCompleteRequest`.

```cs
public class TagNameAutoCompleteProvider : IAutoCompleteProvider
{
    private readonly ITagService tagService;

    public TagNameAutoCompleteProvider(ITagService tagService) => tagService = tagService;

    public ValueTask<IReadOnlyDictionary<string, object>> AutoCompleteAsync(
        AutoCompleteContext context
    )
    {
        var tags = tagService
            .GetTags()
            .Where(x => x.Name.StartsWith(context.UserInput, StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase))
            .ToDictionary(x => x.Name, x => x.Id);

        return ValueTask.FromResult(tags);
    }
}
```

And now we apply this auto-complete provider to a command parameter:

```cs
public class TagCommand
{
    public async ValueTask ExecuteAsync(
        CommandContext context,
        [SlashAutoCompleteProvider<TagNameAutoCompleteProvider>] string tagName
    )
    {
        // ...
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Update autocomplete/choice provider documentation

docs/articles/commands/processors/slash_commands/choice_provider_vs_autocomplete.md, after:

---
uid: articles.commands.command_processors.slash_commands.choice_provider_vs_autocomplete
title: Choice Provider vs Auto-complete
---

# Choice Provider vs Auto-complete

What's a choice provider? How is it different from auto-complete? When should you use one over the other?

## Choice Providers
Discord provides a special feature to slash command options called "choices." Choices are a list of options that the user can select from. The user can select **only** from these choices - as in only those choices are valid - which differs from auto-complete. These choices must be known and provided on startup as they're used when registering the slash command. This means that you can't dynamically change the choices at runtime.

![A Discord screenshot of the `lock` command providing only two choices. The first choice is `Send Messages`, while the second choice is `View Channel`.](../../../../images/commands_choice_provider_example.png)

> [!NOTE]
> The user **must** choose between **only** those two options. If the user tries to select something else, Discord will prevent the command from running.

> [!WARNING]
> A choice provider may only provide 25 choices. If you have more than 25 choices, you should use auto-complete.

## Auto-complete
Auto-complete, on the other hand, is a feature that allows the user to type in a value and Discord will return a list of suggestions retrieved from your bot. The user can select from the list of suggestions or continue typing. This is useful when you have a large number of options or when the options are dynamic and can change at runtime.

![A Discord screenshot of the `tag get` command. As the user types, the list of tags changes.](../../../../images/commands_auto-complete_example.png)

As the user types in the text, Discord will send a request to your bot to get the list of auto-complete suggestions. The user can then select from the list of suggestions or continue typing whatever they want.

> [!WARNING]
> The user **is not required** to choose from the the suggestions provided. They can send any value they want, and it's up to your bot to handle the value.

## Which one should I use?
If you have a small, fixed list of options, use a choice provider. If you have a large list of options or the list of options can change at runtime, use auto-complete.

Some valid use-cases for choice providers include:
- Small Enums (Built-In support!)
- Media types (e.g. `image`, `video`, `audio`)
- The day of the week

Some valid use-cases for auto-complete include:
- Tag names
- A Google search
- Very large enums (e.g. all the countries in the world. Also built-in support!)

Both choice providers and auto-complete support dependency injection through the constructor.

## Implementing a Choice Provider

Our class will implement from the `IChoiceProvider` interface. This interface has a single method: `ValueTask<IEnumerable<DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice>> ProvideAsync(CommandParameter parameter)`. This method is only called once per command parameter on startup.

```cs
public class DaysOfTheWeekProvider : IChoiceProvider
{
    private static readonly IReadOnlyList<DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice> daysOfTheWeek =
    [
        new DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice("Sunday", 0),
        new DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice("Monday", 1),
        new DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice("Tuesday", 2),
        new DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice("Wednesday", 3),
        new DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice("Thursday", 4),
        new DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice("Friday", 5),
        new DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice("Saturday", 6),
    ];

    public ValueTask<IEnumerable<DiscordApplicationCommandOptionChoice>> ProvideAsync(
        CommandParameter parameter
    ) => ValueTask.FromResult(daysOfTheWeek);
}
```

And now we apply this choice provider to a command parameter:

```cs
public class ScheduleCommand
{
    public async ValueTask ExecuteAsync(
        CommandContext context,
        [SlashChoiceProvider<DaysOfTheWeekProvider>] int day
    )
    {
        // ...
    }
}
```

## Implementing Auto-Complete

Auto-complete is very similar in design to choice providers. Our class will implement the `IAutoCompleteProvider` interface. This interface has a single method: `ValueTask<IEnumerable<DiscordAutoCompleteChoice>> AutoCompleteAsync(AutoCompleteContext context)`. This method will be called everytime the `DiscordClient.InteractionCreated` is invoked with a `ApplicationCommandType` of `AutoCompleteRequest`.

```cs
public class TagNameAutoCompleteProvider : IAutoCompleteProvider
{
    private readonly ITagService tagService;

    public TagNameAutoCompleteProvider(ITagService tagService) => tagService = tagService;

    public ValueTask<IEnumerable<DiscordAutoCompleteChoice>> AutoCompleteAsync(
        AutoCompleteContext context
    );
    {
        var tags = tagService
            .GetTags()
            .Where(x => x.Name.StartsWith(context.UserInput, StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase))
            .ToDictionary(x => x.Name, x => x.Id);

        return ValueTask.FromResult(tags);
    }
}
```

And now we apply this auto-complete provider to a command parameter:

```cs
public class TagCommand
{
    public async ValueTask ExecuteAsync(
        CommandContext context,
        [SlashAutoCompleteProvider<TagNameAutoCompleteProvider>] string tagName
    )
    {
        // ...
    }
}
```
